[Maps][Docs]Reverse geocoding tutorial (#108712)
elastic/kibana: docs/maps/reverse-geocoding-tutorial.asciidoc

In this tutorial, you’ll use reverse geocoding to visualize United States Census Bureau Combined Statistical Area (CSA) regions by web traffic.

You’ll learn to:

- Upload custom regions.
- Reverse geocoding with {es} {ref}/enrich-processor.html[enrich processor].
- Create a map and visualize CSA regions by web traffic.

When you complete this tutorial, you’ll have a map that looks like this:

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/reverse-geocoding-tutorial/csa_regions_by_web_traffic.png[]

[float]
=== Step 1: Index web traffic data
GeoIP is a common way of transforming an IP address to a longitude and latitude. GeoIP is roughly accurate on the city level globally and neighborhood level in selected countries. It’s not as great as an actual GPS location from your phone, but it’s much more precise than just a country, state, or province. Use {ref}/geoip-processor.html[GeoIP processor] to transform an IP adderess into a {ref}/geo-point.html[geo_point] field.

> We’ll use the <<get-started, web logs sample data set>> that comes with Kibana for this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You’ll use the <<get-started, web logs sample data set>> that comes with Kibana for this tutorial.
```

. On the home page, click *Try our sample data*.
. On the *Sample web logs* card, click *Add data*.

[float]
=== Step 2: Index Combined Statistical Area (CSA) regions
GeoIP level of detail can be very useful for driving decision-making. For example, say you want to spin up a marketing campaign based on the locations of your users or show executive stakeholders which metro areas are experiencing an uptick of traffic.

That kind of scale in the United States is often captured with what the Census Bureau calls the Combined Statistical Area (CSA). Combined Statistical Area is roughly equivalent with how people intuitively think of which urban area they live in. It does not necessarily coincide with state or city boundaries. CSAs generally share the same telecom providers and ad networks. New fast food franchises expand to a CSA rather than a particular city or municipality. Basically, people in the same CSA shop in the same IKEA.

> To get the CSA boundary data, download the https://www.census.gov/geographies/mapping-files/time-series/geo/carto-boundary-file.html[Cartographic Boundary shapefile (.shp)] from the Census Bureau’s website.

Reviewer: steps here?

To get the CSA boundary data:

1. Download the Cartographic Boundary shapefile (.shp) from the Census Bureau’s website.
2. To use the data in Kibana, convert it to GeoJSON format. 
     Follow this helpful tutorial to use QGIS to convert the Cartographic Boundary shapefile to GeoJSON. Or you download a prebuilt GeoJSON version.

To use it in Kibana, GeoJSON format is required. You can use QGIS to convert the Cartographic Boundary shapefile to GeoJSON. Follow this https://gist.github.com/YKCzoli/b7f5ff0e0f641faba0f47fa5d16c4d8d[helpful tutorial] if you'd like to do the same or you can https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/examples/master/blog/reverse-geocoding/csba.json[Download a prebuilt GeoJSON version].

> Once you have your GeoJSON file:

Reviewer: Could this be another step:

Step 3.  Create and style the map

some intro sentence

1.
2.

Author: getting the geojson file is part of indexing CSA boundaries. What do you think about keeping the 2 steps together?

> To use it in Kibana, GeoJSON format is required. You can use QGIS to convert the Cartographic Boundary shapefile to GeoJSON. Follow this https://gist.github.com/YKCzoli/b7f5ff0e0f641faba0f47fa5d16c4d8d[helpful tutorial] if you'd like to do the same or you can https://gist.githubusercontent.com/thomasneirynck/3813ddde31052b6b58b458ec2a86f81f/raw/2925c87f13324c75b6ed82ead9bf593f3224e847/csba.geojson[Download a prebuilt GeoJSON version].

Reviewer 2: can use this version https://github.com/elastic/examples/pull/378

. Open the main menu, and click *Maps*.
. Click *Create map*.
. Click *Add layer*.
. Click *Upload GeoJSON*.

> . Use the File Picker to select the CSA GeoJSON file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the file chooser to import the CSA GeoJSON file.
```

. Set index name to *csa* and click *Import file*.
. When importing is complete, click *Add as document layer*.
. Add Tooltip fields:
.. Click *+ Add* to open field select.
.. Select *NAME*, *GEOID*, and *AFFGEOID*.
.. Click *Add*.
. Click *Save & close*.

> Looking at the map, we get a sense of what exactly constitutes a metro area in the eyes of the Census Bureau.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking at the map, you get a sense of what constitutes a metro area in the eyes of the Census Bureau.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/reverse-geocoding-tutorial/csa_regions.jpeg[]

[float]
=== Step 3: Reverse geocoding

> To visualize CSA regions by web log traffic, the web log traffic must contain a CSA region identifier. We will use {es} {ref}/enrich-processor.html[enrich processor] to add CSA region identifiers to Kibana's web logs sample data set. You can skip this step if your source data already contains region identifies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To visualize CSA regions by web log traffic, the web log traffic must contain a CSA region identifier. You'll use {es} {ref}/enrich-processor.html[enrich processor] to add CSA region identifiers to the web logs sample data set. You can skip this step if your source data already contains region identifiers.
```

  ] 
}
----------------------------------

. To update your existing data, run:
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
POST kibana_sample_data_logs/_update_by_query?pipeline=lonlat-to-csa
----------------------------------

. To run the pipeline on new documents at ingest, run:
+
[source,js]
----------------------------------
PUT kibana_sample_data_logs/_settings 
{ 
  "index": { 
    "default_pipeline": "lonlat-to-csa" 
  } 
}
----------------------------------

. Open the main menu, and click *Discover*.
. Set the index pattern to *kibana_sample_data_logs*.
. Open the <<set-time-filter, time filter>>, and set the time range to the last 30 days.
. Scan through the list of *Available fields* until you find the `csa.GEOID` field. You can also search for the field by name.
. Click image:images/reverse-geocoding-tutorial/add-icon.png[Add icon] to toggle the field into the document table.
. Find the 'csa.NAME' field and add it to your document table.

Your web log data now contains `csa.GEOID` and `csa.NAME` fields from the matching *csa* region. Web log traffic not contained in a CSA region does not have values for `csa.GEOID` and `csa.NAME` fields.

[role="screenshot"]

> image::maps/images/reverse-geocoding-tutorial/discover_enriched_web_log.png[]

Reviewer: This image is really small.  Is it necessary to show the list of Available fields?

Author: > Is it necessary to show the list of Available fields?

Not really. The relevant part is table but I think its still nice to show users where the fields came from and why they are in the table.

[float]

> === Step 3: Visualize Combined Statistical Area (CSA) regions by web traffic

Reviewer: This is step 4, unless you add the step like I suggested above.

```suggestion
=== Step 4: Visualize Combined Statistical Area (CSA) regions by web traffic
```

> Now that our web traffic contains CSA region identifiers, lets visualize CSA regions by web traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that our web traffic contains CSA region identifiers, you'll visualize CSA regions by web traffic.
```

[role="xpack"]
[[reverse-geocoding-tutorial]]
== Map custom regions with reverse geocoding

*Maps* comes with https://maps.elastic.co/#file[predefined regions] that allow you to quickly visualize regions by metrics. *Maps* also offers the ability to map your own regions. You can use any region data you'd like, as long as your source data contains an identifier for the corresponding region. 

But how can you map regions when your source data does not contain a region identifier? This is where reverse geocoding comes in. Reverse geocoding is the process of assigning a region identifer to a feature based on its location.

In this tutorial, you’ll use reverse geocoding to visualize United States Census Bureau Combined Statistical Area (CSA) regions by web traffic.

You’ll learn to:

- Upload custom regions.
- Reverse geocode with the {es} {ref}/enrich-processor.html[enrich processor].
- Create a map and visualize CSA regions by web traffic.

When you complete this tutorial, you’ll have a map that looks like this:

[role="screenshot"]
image::maps/images/reverse-geocoding-tutorial/csa_regions_by_web_traffic.png[]

[float]
=== Step 1: Index web traffic data

> GeoIP is a common way of transforming an IP address to a longitude and latitude. GeoIP is roughly accurate on the city level globally and neighborhood level in selected countries. It’s not as good as an actual GPS location from your phone, but it’s much more precise than just a country, state, or province. Use {ref}/geoip-processor.html[GeoIP processor] to transform an IP adderess into a {ref}/geo-point.html[geo_point] field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GeoIP is a common way of transforming an IP address to a longitude and latitude. GeoIP is roughly accurate on the city level globally and neighborhood level in selected countries. It’s not as good as an actual GPS location from your phone, but it’s much more precise than just a country, state, or province. Use {ref}/geoip-processor.html[GeoIP processor] to transform an IP address into a {ref}/geo-point.html[geo_point] field.
```

Reviewer: Use GeoIP processor to transform an IP address into a {ref}/geo-point.html[geo_point] field.

This sentence confuses me.  It's telling me to do something, but the follow up steps are to download sample data. When the does the transformation of the IP address actually happen?

Author: Great feedback. I have restructured this part to indicate use of geoIp is optional and no needed in the tutorial.

. On the home page, click *Try sample data*.
. On the *Sample web logs* card, click *Add data*.

[float]
=== Step 2: Index Combined Statistical Area (CSA) regions
GeoIP level of detail is very useful for driving decision-making. For example, say you want to spin up a marketing campaign based on the locations of your users or show executive stakeholders which metro areas are experiencing an uptick of traffic.

That kind of scale in the United States is often captured with what the Census Bureau calls the Combined Statistical Area (CSA). Combined Statistical Area is roughly equivalent with how people intuitively think of which urban area they live in. It does not necessarily coincide with state or city boundaries.

CSAs generally share the same telecom providers and ad networks. New fast food franchises expand to a CSA rather than a particular city or municipality. Basically, people in the same CSA shop in the same IKEA.

To get the CSA boundary data:

. Download the https://www.census.gov/geographies/mapping-files/time-series/geo/carto-boundary-file.html[Cartographic Boundary shapefile (.shp)] from the Census Bureau’s website.

> . To use the data in Kibana, convert it to GeoJSON format. Follow this https://gist.github.com/YKCzoli/b7f5ff0e0f641faba0f47fa5d16c4d8d[helpful tutorial] to use QGIS to convert the Cartographic Boundary shapefile to GeoJSON. Or download a https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/examples/master/blog/reverse-geocoding/csba.json[prebuilt GeoJSON version].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To use the data in Kibana, convert it to GeoJSON format. Follow this https://gist.github.com/YKCzoli/b7f5ff0e0f641faba0f47fa5d16c4d8d[helpful tutorial] to use QGIS to convert the Cartographic Boundary shapefile to GeoJSON. Or, download a https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/examples/master/blog/reverse-geocoding/csba.json[prebuilt GeoJSON version].
```
